---
title: "Breadboard GPU"
thumbnail: "/images/projects/gpu/thumbnail.webp"
description: "Breadboard graphics processing unit based on the Ben Eater's graphics card series on youtube."
technologies: ["Circuit Design", "Arduino", "C++"]
assets: "/images/projects/gpu"
showcased: true
---

# {{title}}

## Project Description

This was a project that I decided to do on a whim during my summer break over 2021 after complete a digital circuits course in university. It is a breadboard computer that was build following the guidance of youtuber Ben Eater and his homemade graphics card series.

It was a great way for learning the subtle intricacies of electronics engineering and also learning how to interpret datasheets.

In case you would like to check out his series below,
<youtube-embed src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/l7rce6IQDWs?si=UXNcpmVq3vdGLPMx"></youtube-embed>

This project involved extensive use of breadboards, digital circuits, and datasheets for different components.

The main technologies used in this project included TTL ICs, diodes, capacitors, resistors, and most importantly, a VGA connector for output. I also utilized C++ for generating writing my own naïve graphics API and other necessary digital logic.

## Technologies Used

<BlogTechnologies :tags="technologies"></BlogTechnologies>

## Features

The graphics card I decided to build was slightly different to the one from Ben Eater mainly because I wanted to challenge myself and test my overall understanding of the content.

Namely the key differences will be:

| **Feature**     | **Ben Eater**                | **Mine**                      |
| --------------- | ---------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| Resolution      | 100:75                       | 200:150                       |
| VRam Type       | EEPROM (AT28C256)            | SRAM (AS6C1008-55PCN)         |
| Framebuffer     | Single buffered              | Double buffered               |
| Colour Range    | 64 colours                   | 4096 colours                  |
| CPU Type        | W65C02S 8–bit Microprocessor | ATMEGA1284-PU Microcontroller |
| CPU Access      | During blanking intervals    | No restrictions               |
| Breadboard Type | Solderless                   | Soldered                      |

## Timing Circuitry

By following Ben Eater’s guide, I was quickly able to build the breadboard setup for displaying simple RGB bands on the monitor.

## VRAM Circuitry

A huge limitation in Ben Eater's design was that the EEPROM only had 15 address lines and hence, the maximum supported resolution was 100 x 75. In addition, his graphics card can only render 64 different colours. Because I wanted to render games on my GPU, I opted to use the AS

## CPU Circuitry

## Data Bus

## Rendering a Set of Pixels

## Rendering a Static Image

The next step would be to render a static image to the screen. To do this,

## Driver

The main computing unit for this graphics card was ATMEGA1284-PU microcontroller the reason for this was due to it having 32 GPIO pins in which I would need 16 for the address, 12 for I/O and 1 to control which SRAM is in read/write mode.

Initially the main bottleneck was the digital write function being too slow for my needs since they only operated on one pin at a time and performed checks on the input. As such, I will be writing my own C function to accomplish the task with zero overhead using port manipulation. This allowed me to dramatically improve the time to write from 2.24us for a single bit to 23ns for 8 bits in parallel.

In case you wanted to know, this is what the code was:

```c
void writeToBuffer(uint16_t addr, uint16_t word) {
    PORTB = addr >> 8; // Higher Addr Bytes
    PORTA = addr & 0xFF; // Lower Addr Bytes
    PORTC = (word >> 8) & 0b00111111;
    PORTD = word & 0xFF;
}
```

Note that I am setting the upper bytes first to avoid corrupting addresses in the SRAM.

Since I was really into Tetris at the time, I thought it would be a cool idea to implement that as a playable game.

## Results

Although, due to time and financial constraints, I had to halt development on the project. However, I plan to resume it someday, possibly after graduating from university when I might have a few more electrical circuit design tricks up my sleeve to streamline the process. Alternatively, I may choose to redo the project using proper PCBs instead of breadboards. Despite the abrupt halt, I was quite pleased with the progress I made in just a few weeks, especially considering I was a beginner in electronics engineering.
